=head1 NAME

mdquery - Query Shibboleth metadata

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mdquery> B<-e> I<entity> [B<-a> I<app>] [B<-nostrict>]

B<mdquery> B<-e> I<entity> B<-r> I<role> B<-p> I<protocol> [B<-a> I<app>]
    [B<-ns> I<namespace>] [B<-nostrict>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mdquery> queries and displays Shibboleth SP metadata.  It is primarily a
debugging tool to use in conjunction with advice from the Shibboleth
mantaininers.  It can display either the metadata for an entity or the
metadata for a particular role.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a> I<app>

Specifies the application ID for which to retrieve metadata.  If not given
the default is C<default>.

=item B<-e> I<entity>

Specifies the entity ID for which to show metadata.  Normally this is the
entity descriptor ID for an entity with which one is having a problem
(such as the entity ID for the local SP).

=item B<-nostrict>

Relax the strictness of checking (such as of expiration dates).

=item B<-ns> I<namespace>

When retrieving metadata for a particular role, specify the namespace.  If
not given, the default is the SAML20MD namespace.

=item B<-p> I<protocol>

Specify a protocol when retrieving metadata for a particular role.
Normally one would use the B<-saml10>, B<-saml11>, or B<-saml2> options to
specify the protocol name, but this option allows an arbitrary protocol to
be specified.

=item B<-saml10>

Specify a protocol of SAML 1.0.

=item B<-saml11>

Specify a protocol of SAML 1.1.

=item B<-saml2>

Specify a protocol of SAML 2.0.

=item B<-r> I<role>

Retrieve the metadata for a particular role.  Normally one would use the
B<-idp>, B<-aa>, B<-pdp>, or B<-sp> options to specify the role name, but
this option allows an arbitrary role to be specified.

=item B<-idp>

Specify a role of IDPSSODescriptor.

=item B<-aa>

Specify a role of AttributeAuthorityDescriptor.

=item B<-pdp>

Specify a role of PDPDescriptor.

=item B<-sp>

Specify a role of SPSSODescriptor.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian GNU/Linux.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008 Russ Allbery.  This manual page is hereby placed into the
public domain by its author.

=cut
