=head1 NAME

shib-metagen - Generate metadata for a Shibboleth SP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<shib-metagen> [B<-c> I<cert> [B<-c> I<cert> ...]] [B<-e> I<entity-id>]
    [B<-h> I<host> [B<-h> I<host> ...]] [B<-n> I<host> [B<-n> I<host> ...]]
    [B<-o> I<organization>] [B<-a> I<admin> [B<-a> I<admin> ...]]
    [B<-s> I<support> [B<-s> I<support> ...]]
    [B<-t> I<tech> [B<-t> I<tech> ...]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Generate metadata for a Shibboleth SP.  The metadata is printed to
standard output.  Most of the parameters are optional, but at least one of
B<-h> or B<-n> must be given to specify the hostname to use in
constructing URLs for the Shibboleth service for the SP.  Other metadata
can be added by using the other command-line parameters.  Most parameters
can be given multiple times.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a> I<admin>

An administrative contact for this Shibboleth SP.  This option may be
omitted, in which case administrative contact metadata is not included, or
may be given multiple times to list multiple contacts.  I<admin> should be
in the form C<I<first>/I<last>/I<email>> where I<first> is the given name
and I<last> is the surname.

=item B<-c> I<cert>

Specifies the SSL certificate used to identify this Shibboleth SP.  This
option may be given multiple times to specify multiple certificates.  If
it is not given, the default certificate is F<sp-cert.pem> in the current
working directory.

=item B<-e> I<entity-id>

The entity ID for this SP.  This must be a unique identifier for this SP
and must be a URL.  If B<-o> is given, it is used as the URL for the
organization running this Shibboleth SP.  If it is not specified, it
defaults to C<https://I<host>/shibboleth> where I<host> is the argument to
the first B<-h> option.

=item B<-h> I<host>

A hostname for this SP (possibly a virtual host).  Either this option or
B<-n> must be specified at least once.  It should be repeated for every
virtual host that responds to the Shibboleth protocol.  B<-h> should be
used for hostnames or virtual hosts that use SSL.

=item B<-n> I<host>

A hostname for this SP (possibly a virtual host).  Either this option or
B<-h> must be specified at least once.  It should be repeated for every
virtual host that responds to the Shibboleth protocol.  B<-n> should be
used for hostnames or virtual hosts that do not use SSL to protect the
Shibboleth communication.

=item B<-o> I<organization>

The name of the organization that runs this Shibboleth SP.  This option
may be given only once and may be omitted, in which case organization
metadata is not included.  This is normally not necessary but may be used
by other software systems for purposes such as displaying lists of
entities with human-readable names.

=item B<-s> I<support>

A support contact for this Shibboleth SP.  This option may be omitted, in
which case support contact metadata is not included, or may be given
multiple times to list multiple contacts.  I<support> should be in the
form C<I<first>/I<last>/I<email>> where I<first> is the given name and
I<last> is the surname.

=item B<-t> I<tech>

A technical contact for this Shibboleth SP.  This option may be omitted,
in which case technical contact metadata is not included, or may be given
multiple times to list multiple contacts.  I<tech> should be in the form
C<I<first>/I<last>/I<email>> where I<first> is the given name and I<last>
is the surname.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian GNU/Linux.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Russ Allbery.  This manual page is hereby placed into the
public domain by its author.

=cut
